[CTOR-514] [Doc] New Pack RRDCached (#3264)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/applications-rrdcached.md

---
id: applications-rrdcached
title: RRDCached
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Pack assets

### Templates

The Monitoring Connector **Rrdcached** brings a host template:

* **App-Rrdcached-custom**

The connector brings the following service templates (sorted by the host template they are attached to):

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="App-Rrdcached-custom" label="App-Rrdcached-custom">

| Service Alias | Service Template           | Service Description                                     |
|:--------------|:---------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------|

> | Stats         | App-Rrdcached-Stats-custom | Affiche les mise à jour du cache d'un daemon rrdcached  |

Reviewer: FR in EN

> | Stats         | App-Rrdcached-Stats-custom | Affiche les mise à jour du cache d'un daemon rrdcached  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Stats         | App-Rrdcached-Stats-custom | Affiche les mises à jour du cache d'un daemon rrdcached  |
```

> The services listed above are created automatically when the **App-Rrdcached-custom** host template is used.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Collected metrics & status

Here is the list of services for this connector, detailing all metrics linked to each service.

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Stats" label="Stats">

| Metric name    | Unit  |
|:---------------|:------|
| UpdatesWaiting | count |
| QueueLenght    | count |

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Prerequisites

> To use this connector you must have installed and configured RRDCached (see this [documentation](https://oss.oetiker.ch/rrdtool/doc/rrdcached.en.html)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this connector you must have [installed and configured RRDCached](https://oss.oetiker.ch/rrdtool/doc/rrdcached.en.html).
```

<TabItem value="Stats" label="Stats">

| Macro          | Description                                                                                                                            | Default value     | Mandatory   |
|:---------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------|:-----------:|
| WARNINGQUEUE   | Warning number of nodes in RRDCached queue                                                                                             | 70                |             |
| CRITICALQUEUE  | Critical number of nodes in RRDCached queue                                                                                            | 100               |             |
| WARNINGUPDATE  | Warning number of cached RRD updates (One update can include several values)                                                           | 3000              |             |
| CRITICALUPDATE | Critical number of cached RRD updates (One update can include several values)                                                          | 5000              |             |

> | EXTRAOPTIONS   | Any extra option you may want to add to the command (a --verbose flag for example). All options are listed [here](#available-options). | --verbose         |             |

Reviewer: unclear

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

3. [Deploy the configuration](/docs/monitoring/monitoring-servers/deploying-a-configuration). The service appears in the list of services, and on the **Resources Status** page. The command that is sent by the connector is displayed in the details panel of the service: it shows the values of the macros.

## How to check in the CLI that the configuration is OK and what are the main options for?

Once the plugin is installed, log into your Centreon poller's CLI using the
**centreon-engine** user account (`su - centreon-engine`). Test that the connector 
is able to monitor a resource using a command like this one (replace the sample values by yours):

```bash
/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_rrdcached.pl \
	--plugin=apps::rrdcached::plugin \
	--mode=stats \
	--host=10.0.0.1 \
	--socket-type='unix' \
	--unix-socket-path='/var/rrdtool/rrdcached/rrdcached.sock' \
	--port='42217'  \
	--warning-update='3000' \
	--critical-update='5000' \
	--warning-queue='70' \
	--critical-queue='100' \
	--verbose
```

The expected command output is shown below:

```bash

> OK:  | 'UpdatesWaiting'=10updates;;;0;

Reviewer: is that sufficient?

---
id: applications-rrdcached
title: RRDCached
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Pack assets

### Templates

The Monitoring Connector **RRDcached** brings 2 host templates:

* **App-Rrdcached-Tcp-custom**
* **App-Rrdcached-Unix-custom**

The connector brings the following service templates (sorted by the host template they are attached to):

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="App-Rrdcached-Tcp-custom" label="App-Rrdcached-Tcp-custom">

| Service Alias | Service Template                    | Service Description                      |
|:--------------|:------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|

> | Ping-Socket | App-Rrdcached-Ping-Socket-Tcp-custom  | Check Updates cache of rrdcached daemon  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Ping-Socket | App-Rrdcached-Ping-Socket-Tcp-custom  | Monitor status and performance of RRDcached daemon  |
```

> | Stats       | App-Rrdcached-Stats-Tcp-custom        | Check Updates cache of rrdcached daemon  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Stats       | App-Rrdcached-Stats-Tcp-custom        | Monitor status and performance of RRDcached daemon  |
```

> The services listed above are created automatically when the **App-Rrdcached-Tcp-custom** host template is used.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="App-Rrdcached-Unix-custom" label="App-Rrdcached-Unix-custom">

| Service Alias | Service Template                    | Service Description                      |
|:------------|:--------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|

> | Ping-Socket | App-Rrdcached-Ping-Socket-Unix-custom | Check Updates cache of rrdcached daemon  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Ping-Socket | App-Rrdcached-Ping-Socket-Unix-custom | CMonitor status and performance of RRDcached daemon |
```
